---
layout: post
title: Lung Cancer Detection
--- 

There are about 225,000 new cases of lung cancer every year in the United States, with a cost of $12 Billion. Although doctors try to do everything they can to accurately diagnose patients, even they are prone to mistakes and human error. By combining the dataset provided by Kaggle and machine learning algorithms, we will try to accurately predict whether a person will develop lung cancer within the next year based solely on their CT Scans.

## Problem Statement

The current Lung Cancer detection accuracy among doctors is roughly 74% (source: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov). The graph below displays the confusion matrix of doctors' predictions. Although they are able to catch the majority of patients that develop cancer, there is a high number of False Positives. This is problematic because of high medical costs, high anxiety of chemotherapy and cancer drugs, and the deadly risks that come with surgery.

## Goal

Our goal is to use data science to create a better model that will increase overall accuracy. Ideally, we would like to decrease False Positives without increasing False negatives due to the risks of not detecting cancer in the early stages.

## Methods 

We will pre-process the CT scans into 3d arrays of the lungs, then feed the arrays into a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). CNNs are great for finding patterns in spatial composition. They work well with 2D images, 3D images, sentence structure, etc.
The Kaggle competition will be measuring in log loss. This means that we will find the probability that a patient will develop cancer. Log loss works so that an algorithm is severely penalized if the probability is way off.

## Risks and Assumptions

One of the main risks in dealing with this data is that we are assuming that there is no information on the patients themselves. The dataset does not give us gender, age, or how frequently they smoke. These factors contribute heavily towards whether or not the person will develop lung cancer. The competition has left these variable out on purpose in order to ensure that the participants use machine vision to approach this problem.

