---
layout: post
title: The most likely people to die on the Titanic
---  

The crashing of the Titanic has been one of the most tragic events in human history, with a total of 1,503 deaths. It's difficult to imagine what you would have done if you were in that situation. Aboard the ship, some people were more likely to survive than others. In this project, I am going to use a predictive model to find out who was more likely to survive, and who was not so fortunate.

## The Data ##

The data contained roughly 900 passengers and their specific features (gender, age, ticket class, fare, siblings, parents, cabin number, and port of embarkation). The age column had a lot of null values, so I had to impute them using linear regression.

## The Models ##

I decided to use 4 different types of models: Decision Trees, Bagged Decision Trees, K-Nearest Neighbors, and Logistic Regression. After fitting all my models and applying a Grid Search to find optimum parameters. I found that my highest average cross val score to be Decision Trees with 0.83. I found the accuracy of this model to be 0.85, which means that I correctly classified 85% of the people on whether or not they survived. The precision was 0.89. This means that 89% of the people that I predicted would survive actually did survive. The recall was 0.7. This means that I correctly predicted 70% of the survivors out of all the survivors. Given that there are only 900 rows, this is a pretty good result.

After evaluating the model, I wanted to know which features affected survival rate the most. I found that gender was the most deterministic factor in whether or not a person aboard the Titanic would survive. The gender feature had a coefficient of 0.57. Females were more likely to survive than males. In fact, 81% of the men in the dataset died. Also, the second most predictive feature was whether or not they were in 3rd class. So if you were a man in 3rd class on the Titanic, you wouldn't be so lucky.

## ROC Curve ##
